README.md, before:

# Staga
a stack-based programming language i am working on

## File Structure:
- tokenizer.odin: is a basic tokenizer
- n_utils.odin: a bunch of utils functions
- parser.odin: generates an instruction list to execute the program
- interpreter.odin: as the name suggests it interprets the instructions and executes them
- common.odin: a file containing common structs and global vars

## Plans:
- [ ] turing complete
- [ ] compilable (bytecode)
- [ ] odin fn calls or C fn calls (Interoperability)
- [ ] functions (or something resembling them)

## "Features":
### printing
```
 "Hello, World" .       // string printing
 "nope"         print   // prints but no newline
 420            println # the same as .
 69             .       # int printing (only unsigned)
```

### arithmetics
```
 5 + 5  .
 6 - 1  .
 2 * 10 .
 10 / 5 .
```

### Conditions
```
 5 < 10 .
 5 > 10 .
 5 = 5  .
```

### Control Flow
```
 1  if "yes"      else "no"         done .
 69 if "non zero" else "it is zero" done .

 0 while dup < 100 do dup . + 1 end
```

## How To Use:
first install [odin](https://odin-lang.org/)

then
```console
 make build-debug
 make build-release
```

run:
```console
 ./build/staga run showcase.stg
 ./build/staga_debug run showcase.stg
```

Commit message:

added swap operation and meml and mems instructions

README.md, after:

# Staga
a stack-based programming language i am working on

## File Structure:
- tokenizer.odin: is a basic tokenizer
- n_utils.odin: a bunch of utils functions
- parser.odin: generates an instruction list to execute the program
- interpreter.odin: as the name suggests it interprets the instructions and executes them
- common.odin: a file containing common structs and global vars

## Plans:
- [ ] turing complete
- [ ] compilable (bytecode) or transpilable
- [ ] Interoperability with other languages
- [ ] functions (or something resembling them)

## "Features":
### printing
```
 "Hello, World" .       // string printing
 "nope"         print   // prints but no newline
 420            println # the same as .
 69             .       # int printing (only unsigned)
```

### arithmetics
```
 5 + 5  .
 6 - 1  .
 2 * 10 .
 10 / 5 .
```

### Conditions
```
 5 < 10 .
 5 > 10 .
 5 = 5  .
```

### Control Flow
```
 1  if "yes"      else "no"         done .
 69 if "non zero" else "it is zero" done .

 0 while dup < 100 do dup . + 1 end
```

### stack manipulation
```
 1 2 3 3 swap . . // this swaps the top element with the 3th one aka 1 and 3 in this case
```

### memory
```
 10 2 mems // stores 10 in memory no 2
 2 meml .  // loads the value in memory no 2 and prints it
```

## How To Use:
first install [odin](https://odin-lang.org/)

then
```console
 make build-debug
 make build-release
```

run:
```console
 ./build/staga run showcase.stg
 ./build/staga_debug run showcase.stg
```
